In this lecture I want to dive a bit deeper into flex box especially regarding how you use it and react
native apps.
If you know all about that already you can of course skip this lecture.
So for this I prepared a simple dummy application.
And of course you find Dad attached it's a normal react native app built with Expo and in the app jazz
file here what I have in the end is just a view with free view is in there where each student has a
text with text 1 to free.
This simply creates some boxes with different colors red blue and green and now will use flex blocks
to move these boxes around so that you can get a feeling for her flex box works because it's so important
now.
First things first by default every view and react native.
Even if you assign no special styles uses flex box and that's different to the Web for example there
if you have a div which would be your equivalent to a view kind of it doesn't use flex box by default.
In react native it does every view by default organizes its children with the help of this flex box
thing flags box simply is a term is simply a concept from C as s that is all about organizing child
elements in a one dimensional space.
So here for example in a column that's also never default.
Not only does every view by default use flex box it also by default organizes children in a column.
So from top to bottom that's all the difference to the Web.
And I don't want to emphasize these differences too much because of course you don't need to be a web
developer to build rect native apps but I think a lot of people do know web development.
Do know with CSA as flex box and therefore it makes sense to all the talk about the differences in the
web when you use flex box.
Not only is it not turned on by default.
In addition if you do turn it on the default is to organize all child elements in a row and here default
is to organize them in a column.
You can change that default though so in this case on the view which holds my boxes by adding flex direction
here and setting this to row for example now you will see that these free boxes are organized in a row
from left to right now besides row and column.
You also have row reverse and column reverse.
And this simply also well does what the name implies.
Now we still have a row but the first element to Redbox actually is on the right and not on left anymore.
So that's all something you can do.
Let me go back to Rovio so that's the the first thing you can do.
Another important thing about flex box is how child elements are sized here.
I gave every child element a width and a height of 100.
Now if we would remove that with and height thing on every child element Daniel will see that now we
have a very very small row year because every box now is only as wide added as its child requires it
to be an only as tall as its child requires it to be.
So every box here which holds a number is only as wide and tall as the number it's containing.
Now you can changed it with the surrounding flex box container to let's give data with of let's say
300 pixels or of 80 percent off the parent with.
So in this case since it's the root element of the device with and let's give it a height of let's say
three hundred.
If we do that and now really important I'm doing this on the view which holds all these boxes I'm not
doing it on the boxes themselves.
So if we assign this width and height on the surrounding box you see something interesting.
The height is assumed for all the elements.
Now all the views in the flex box take the height of the parent the width has no impact here.
That's also a default behaviour you've got here obviously since we haven't changed anything.
The default behaviour here indeed is that these child elements in a flex box.
So in this outer view here are organized such that they align themselves along the cross axes by stretching.
OK that were a lot of terms what does this mean now when working with Flex box.
We have two important axis the main axis depends on your flex direction for a row which we have here
flex direction row the main axis is from left to right for row reverse it would be right to left for
column it would be top to bottom for column reverse it would be bottom to top.
So that's the main axis.
And then you also have a cross axis and that's simply the opposite of the main axis.
So for a row where the main axis is from left to right the cross axis would be from top to bottom if
the main axis is from right to left which would be the case for Roe reverse then the cross axis would
be from bottom to top.
OK so that's the main axis and cross axis concept.
Now you can organize your child elements so in this view where we have the free boxes as child elements
you can organize these child elements along this axis you use justified content to organize elements
along the main axis and you have a line items to organize elements around d cross axis.
Now you see the values you got for justify content here.
If you add these quotes or if you place or cursor in there and you had controlled space you see you
can center elements you can position them at the end or at the start of that container or you can add
some space in between.
For example if we use space between here and we use a line item center then things will change.
Now you will see there taking the width of the surrounding container.
Every box itself still is pretty small but they're split or they're distributed across the width of
the parent container and they're no longer taking the height because along the cross axis we're aligning
them with a line items and dare I set this to center.
The default here is stretch and if I set it back to stretch then unsurprisingly they do stretch for
the entire height.
Now if you want to make sure that they take their way little with you can set stretch here on Justified
content which is your main axis positioning vehicle so you can set stretch here.
So what can you do regarding that then.
Well that is something you now configure on every child item itself.
You can tell a child item how much space it should take off the space it's potentially getting stretch
here is kind of a special case dare you set this up on the parent item.
Normally you set this up on the child item.
So for example if I set this to center now so that the parent doesn't tell the child how much space
it should take then we can fully control the space a child takes by going to the child style and there
you can add flex the Flex property the Flex property is applied to items that are inside of a flex box.
So did our inside of a view.
In this case here and that can be a view itself but that could also be another component like a text
for example.
So now here you can add flex and you can set this to a value of 1 for example.
So flex needs to be a number if you set this to 1 what you will see is dead.
Now the red container where a did set flex to 1 takes all the available with it can get just so much
that it leaves enough space for the blue and the green container so that they can squeeze their content
into the surrounding flex box.
Now we can see the boundaries of the surrounding container but the boundaries would essentially be where
the red item starts and the green item ends on the horizontal axis here.
So now flex 1 makes sure that the red item gets as big as it can get.
So it takes as much space as it can get by default views only take as much space as their child elements
required.
So asked is one character required but with Flex 1 you changed us and they now take as much space along
the main axis.
So along the width you're asked to can get for the cross axis.
Again that's a special case you have to do this on the parent for the main axis.
And since we have ro here the main axis is a horizontal axis from left to right.
You do this with the flex property on a child.
No of course you can add flex to Abbott child elements as well like that second to the blue container
with the two in there.
You can add flex one there as well.
So now I have flex one on the red container and flex one on the blue container.
What now happens is that both of them take the available free space and amongst these two boxes the
space is distributed evenly and that's what this number here indicates.
This number is a relative number.
All items in the same flex box with the flex property distribute the away label space by considering
the number you assign here and these numbers are relative to each other.
So if I give the blue container flex to here then this means that off the away label space you have
in that surrounding container after deducting the space every element needs to squeeze its content in
there.
The blue container will take twice as much space as this one because here we have flex one.
Here we have flex 2.
If we had flex free here then this would take three fifths of the available free space because we have
free plus 2.
So we have 5 available segments so to say and here the red container would take 3 segments blue container
would take 2 segments.
If we have 1 and 2 then we have three available segments and the blue container takes two of them.
Red takes one so you always add up these flex numbers and then distribute or that's automatically done
of course but then the available space is distributed accordingly.
So now here will see that the blue container is twice as big as the red one or it takes twice as much
free space as the red one.
So this is how you can work with flex.
You can organize how items are positioned with Flex direction with justified content and with a line
items and you can also make your items grow and shrink with the help of flex.
So now that's a brief introduction to flex marks in react native.
As I said inspired by a flex box for a c as s so if you knew that all of what I explained here is probably
not new to you.
Will work with Flex blocks throughout this course.
So there things will also become clearer and we'll work a lot with it and you'll see how you can create
beautiful user interfaces with Flex box flex books in the end is the tool in react native to structure
your content on a page to organize your content and you will typically work with a lot of views which
you all nested into each other so that you can position elements the way you want because of course
and that's all important.
You don't just have to have one view in your app which uses flex blocks.
You could have another view in there which also uses flex blocks that actually as I mentioned every
view by default uses flex blocks and you can then nest these views into each other so that you position
everything the way you want and you'll also see this in this module already.
And actually I'm already doing it here in my view is here which are in the surrounding view so my boxes
here there I also use justified content in the line items to center my numbers in these boxes so that
1 2 and 3 are centered there horizontally and vertically and that works because we have flex box turned
on by default and we can't turn it off by the way and therefore I just use these two properties here
to align my content office view along the main and the cross axis and here since I set no special flex
direction for this view the main axis is top to bottom because the default flex direction is column
and the cross axis is left to right.
That's just a side note.